# AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 11AUG2023

Attendees: Nic Jelinski, Sabine Grunwald, Matt Macander, Colby Brungard, Irfan Ainuddin, Sue Ives, Frances Biles, Dave D'Amore, Jacquie Foss      

### Project overview for new USFS attendees
Jacquie – better systems for managing veg data, spatially explicit veg data in other systems, will need to figure how to connect.
FIA data – veg data database, with a few soil points.
J - good to know if veg data exists, if so where does it exist.
Soils 2026 – maybe Rob Vaughn at Gtech? Stella Smith?
Geotechnical excellence application center?
Dave – Harmonized data for digital soil  mapping – isnt gonna happen?, spatial integrity is suspect.

### Action Items
NEED: Flags for data accuracy
Github – add Dave to github
Dave - Template to send data over?
