# AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 24OCT2022

## Agenda and Minutes:

### Introductions

### Review of grant proposal, plan of work, and timeline

### Discussion of NRCS Alaska 2026 task force objectives/working groups and how to best interface with that work within the context of our project.

1.  Get Sabine and Matt on the AK 2026 Taskforce Mailing List for Meetings -- Colby will contact Suzanne K-B about this\
2.  Open discussion/concerns, planning for future recurring meetings

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
a.  Schedule monthly recurring meetings -- Nic will coordinate this

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
    b. From Sabine: we develop memoranda of understanding and agreement as well as implement data policies. This should include co-authorship policies. We should have a letter standardized - all those contribute using data policy. Makes it easier to answer for later - to have something in written form. Should do this with agencies as well – even if data is public. 
    - How does data ownership work with NASIS - how would data ownership be honored. Some of the academics that might have datasest - how will the data be shared through NASIS with other potential users? 
    - This process needs to incorporate the NRCS folks.   

    c. From Colby - hard copy data from Forest Service BLM, NRCS 
    - Should contact Jay Scoblin: NRCS - knows how to get data into NASIS - did a giant export from the forest service NRS database into NASIS.  

    d. From Matt: ABR has asset in Google Earth Engine for statewide covariates 
    - Colby also has co-variates on statewide basis? 

    e. From Sabine - use some of existing data in terms of horizons and profiles to think of an inference AI model that is able to make predictions from topsoil to lower layers. To use environmental co-variates and topsoil information to make deeper predictions with AI model. Because this would be very interesting with landscape changes - what would happen as warming develops further in the future. 
    - Will we include data from proximal soil sensing/spectral data, etc? 
      - Thats the fantastic AI dataset that we could explore - if you had mid IR scan, but didn't know horizonation - could you determine horizons - could you get to horizon nomenclature - would be something to explore - proxys and softer datasets. 
      - ISRIC - standardized soil images, soil profiles - create consistent images - images exist from soil profiles, soil properties, so you can match the image to the properties. I don't know how deep

# AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 14DEC2022

## Agenda and Minutes: 
### Updates on action items from previous meeting 
1. Add Sabine and Matt to NRCS AK 2026 Task Force Notifications/Team. - Colby contacted Suzanne K-B to request that Matt and Sabine be added. Next AK 2026 taskforce meeting is January 20th. 
2. Ensure subawards contracts are executed. ABR contract is now completed and ready for invoicing. NMSU and UFL subawards have been executed by UMN and sent to sponsored projects at each institution (Nic double checked). 
3. Schedule monthly recurring meetings – second Friday of each month (beginning January 13th) @ 9am AK, 11am Mountain, 12PM Central, 1PM Eastern. Will keep this schedule at least through May – then will re-evaluate for the field season and fall. 

### Discussion on executing Deliverable #1:  
1. *The Alaska Soil Data Bank (ASDB). We will acquire, curate, and centralize non-NRCS legacy data for the state of Alaska and stand up a database for continuing contributions on the G.E.M.S. platform of the University of Minnesota Supercomputing Institute. The ASDB will result in a harmonized dataset for use in digital soil mapping in Alaska and scripts will be written to export the data into a NASIS-readable format for ingestion.*
    - Major action items: 
      - Need to get Sabine, Matt and Colby set up as GEMS users. 
      - Nic needs to set up a new project team and workspace in GEMS – currently working with GEMS team to do this. GEMS has streamlined the user addition process now – one question that came up for partners – should we use one login per instutition? The answer is no – we should use individualized logins for every user because this is now further streamlined and can be attached to a specific Globus ID 
      - Once everyone is set up as users and our team is set up, Nic can pull everyone in to the project. I can add new users at any team once they are registered. 
  
2. General discussion regarding path forward on deliverable 1 
    - Agreed that we should move forward in January with reviewing 2 test datasets on the GEMS platform – for the January meeting, Nic will walk through data import, field metadata tagging, dataset or project metadata generation in GEMS, and scripting capabilities in the workspace. 
      - We will look at Chien-Lu's UAF pedon database and a snippet of the ABR legacy database 
    - Concurrently, we will begin drafting metadata architecture for the project. We will have should have this set prior to large scale data ingestion, and aim to have a first version of a full metadata document complete by May 2023 or before. 
Sabine will share the full metadata documentation for the Florida Soil Characterization Database.  

3. Some additional considerations for developing metadata architecture: 
      - Version control 
        - Github? Or work on GEMS platform in JSON? - that may be limited so perhaps work on GitHub in JSON? 
        - Additionally, it may be easiest for our full project metadata to be in a more easily editable form – while dataset specific metadata can utilize the GEMS metadata creation tools, which generate JSON formatted metadata. 
      - Need to draft data conventions: decide how to handle missing data, missing values, etc etc. Were variables not assesed due to the sampling protocol or actually missing? Are missing fields null or zero values, etc 
      - Dealing with different coordinate systems. 
      - Ontologies/ controlled vocabularies for field metadata – we can create a controlled vocabulary/ontology that is specific to our project for appending field metadata. Nic would work with GEMS engineers to set this up. 
4. Some additional considerations for wrangling datasets 
    - What format? Text files? Database exchange 
      - Nic’s first thought is we should work in csvs for most datasets. Although there is no restriction to file types in GEMS this would likely be the cleanest. Can look into database exchange options for the ABR database. 
    - Assigning unique IDs to all observations in datasets, checking for duplicates, etc 
      - This is something that can be done in the workspace on GEMS – we need to think about site vs horizon level data – need to link with ID (ABR uses a project ID and a plot ID.  
      - Colby has dealt with unique identifiers in combined datasets by appending the UTM coordinates to observations. 

# AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 14APR2023

## Agenda and Minutes: 

### Updates on action items from previous meeting 
1. Sue delivered NPS data from ABR Legacy Database to Nic and Irf

### Review, discussion and brainstorming of status on dataset acquisition
1. **Review preliminary spreadsheet created by Nic**
      - Discussed each dataset, added points of contact, added other datasets to the table
2. **TODOs**
    - Major action items: 
      - Nic will get the spreadsheet table up on GitHub as a Project Table
      - Nic will have a conversation with USFS

## Looking Forward: Future Meetings
      - Will continue to hold monthly meetings, same timeslot through the growing season - people will join as they can throughout the summer.

# AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 13OCT2023

Attendees: Nic Jelinski, Sabine Grunwald, Matt Macander, Timm Nawrocki, Travis Nauman, Frances Biles
Meeting recording: [OCT Meeting Recording GMT20231013 172332 Recording 1920x1080](https://youtu.be/jg7CtiUfqo0)

## Updates on action items from September

Nic drafted the pedometrics abstract and received comments from the group

## Pedometrics 2024 Abstract

Pedometrics abstract will be submitted on Saturday 14OCT - please get comments in if you have any

## Update/review/discussion re: data curation and acquisition from NPS, BLM, USFS, DOE

Reviewed progress on datasource aqcuisition since last meeting

## Presentation of GEMS scripting workflow

Nic and Irf presented concepts and mechanics of GEMS workflow and metadata tagging/mining

### Other business

Frances brought up an excellent questions - where can all opf these different file types live? Nic is working on it - Box will be the most likely place. I can link to Box from GitHub as well Travis - another option could be to host a Teams workspace Timm N. - Is there an api endpoint for GEMS? would be nice to have a database to database connection. Nic will talk to GEMS engineers.

### Action Items

# AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 13JAN2023

## Agenda and Minutes: 

### Updates on action items from previous meeting 
1. Need to ensure Sabine and Colby have access to GitHub
2. Everyone set up as users in our team on the GEMS platform, Alaska Database Team

### GitHub Site and GEMS Platform Overview:  
1. **Tour of GitHub organization site structure**
      - GitHub site access set as public, but repositories are private: https://github.com/alaska-soil-data-bank
      - Currently 2 repositories (Admin: for meeting minutes and project-metadata: for metadata documentation and overall structure)
      - Project Metadata repo is a growing document published as a GitHub Pages website
    - Major action items: 
      - Need to get Sabine and Colby set up on our GitHub repo. 

2. **GEMS Platform Overview**
      - Nic used minimum dataset example to show how GEMS platform functions. Uploaded csv and demonstrate ‘Explore Data’ . Irf will be working on data wrangling. GEMS lagging out during demonstration.
      - Key-field Aggregation 
      - Post-Harmonization,  Scripts run on GEMS servers and outputs working dataset.
      - Workspace Data has permission control for external and internal project 
      - Adding Data to GEMS → Identifiable Fields, we can enter field meta data for  ingested data sets and use the meta data tag instead  of original data set column value
      - Matt question: Managing different units for similar parameters
      - Sabine question: Handling different methodology for similar measurements
      - Colby response: We may have more morphological data than lab measurements
      - Nic - Showing methods and codes draft for capturing method metadata within code label labeling system
      - Will be important to have a controlled vocabulary 
      - Geospatial Fuzzing - Can choose which fields to fuzz, but maintains clear data flow documentation
      - 12:42 - Colby Question – Columns that exist in a one data set that is not available in all data sets.  
      - Nic – Response: Original data remains untouched but the harmonized data would contain NA values.
      - Established Ontologies are available to utilize “ICASA, EnvO”
      - Sabine Response: great to have them but maybe better to be limited in variation
      - 12:48 - Data Set  Metadata Population, created JSON metadata set for each database.
      - Sabine Question: Where do we define minimum standards for data quality?
      - Colby  Question: What if we get a small limited dataset? 
      - Nic Response: We will probably have to develop this as a group, hoping to use github discussions / documentation to build out the documentation page.
      - Proposal Issue - Tag Datasets with geospatial data quality, and maybe a few other parameters. Where did coords come from and what is the precision of coordinates? Matt: Recent data has estimates to meters of accuracy reported by GPS. 
      - Matt: Define Default units for each row, then define  a translation factor.

    - Major action items: 
      - Irf & Nic getting a preliminary draft with minimum standards
      - Colby share draft scheme for tagging dataset quality… “gps pre 2000, gps post 2000, from ortho photos..”

3. **Looking Forward: Future Meetings**
      - FEB: Discuss minimum standards requirements 
      - MARCH: Potentially invite GEMS and NRCS to meeting
      - Matt - Questions about previously submitted data sets. Pretty expansive dataset, not all of it maybe needs to be ingested, seeking feedback regarding data.
      - TODO: Include Sue Ives on followup emails
      - Deliverable 3: Katmai Segmentation Analysis – ABR is leading this work
# AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 12MAY2023

## Agenda and Minutes (Attendees: Nic, Sue and Irf): 

### Updates on action items from previous meeting 
1. Nic created Project Table on GitHub in place of spreadsheet to track data acquisition progress
2. Nic had discussion with Dave D'Amore and Jacquie Foss re: USFS data

## Dataset acquisition and curation progress 
1. **Discussion of ABR Shell dataset with Sue**
      - Sue will deliver
3. **TODOs**
    - Major action items: 
      - Irf will continue to get acquired datasets on GEMS platform and generate metadata
      - Irf/Nic need to work on preliminary data dictionary/ontology
      - Nic needs to complete draft of data sharing/data use and co-authorship agreements.

### Looking Forward: Future Meetings
      - Will continue to hold monthly meetings, same timeslot through the growing season - people will join as they can throughout the summer.

# AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 12JAN2024

## Introductions

The meeting was led by Nic Jelinski from the University of Minnesota. Other attendees included:

Attendees: Matt Macander (ABR), Sue Ives (ABR), Sabine Grunwald (UF), Jacquie Foss (USFS), Travis Nauman (NRCS), Erin Rooney (NRCS), Colby Brungard (NMSU), Josh Minai (DOE), Timm Nawrocki (ACCS), Frances Biles (USFS), Jenny Richter (USFS), Irfan Ainuddin (UMN).

Recording is here: [**JAN Meeting Recording GMT20240112-180735_Recording_2812x13340**](https://youtu.be/lKIH0GNUzws)

## Project Updates

-   Github repo made public in December
-   Acquired Jim Bochheim's northern Alaska pedon database (\~500 pedons)
-   Waiting on additional BLM data sets from Timm
-   Sue and Matt continuing conversations with industry partners about data sharing
-   Compiling additional geotechnical borehole logs - useful for permafrost and ground ice but less for soil data
-   Discussed digitizing and importing legacy USFS soil data
-   Planning for additional science products building on initial soil mapping - integrating temporal component of datasets and process-based permafrost models

## Discussion on USFS Soil Data

Jacquie Foss (USFS)) shared that they have a large amount of legacy soil pedon data that has not been digitized. This includes detailed pedon descriptions from over 1000 sites across southeast Alaska. Currently this data exists as PDFs and scanned field sheets stored on a Sharepoint site that is difficult to access and utilize.

There was extensive discussion around options to make this valuable soil data more accessible. Jacquie expressed interest in an intake solution that resembles the standard soil pedon field sheets to facilitate entering the data. Travis discussed the NCSS PedonPC Excel template and Survey123 as potential options that provide import capability to NASIS. However, he noted there is no consensus on the best approach across different soil data collectors.

The group discussed the challenges around obsolete soil horizon nomenclature and taxonomy used in older surveys. Manual transcription would be needed in many cases along with lookup tables to translate to modern terminology. Colby Brungard shared his experience leading a student project to digitize over 3000 legacy pedons in New Mexico. He offered to briefly present on this project in an upcoming meeting to share lessons learned.

In terms of next steps, Jacquie will upload their available digitized soil data to the Box folder shared by Nic. Follow up side discussions will also take place exploring options to transform the legacy PDF data into accessible electronic records. Nic suggested exploring use of undergraduate researchers to assist with transcription of select records within the project timeframe.

## Action Items

-   Timm to deliver AIM and other data sets before summer field season\
-   Matt to share data request templates and follow up with industry partners re: data access\
-   Nic to set up Box folder and share with USFS\
-   USFS to share available soil data via Box folder\
-   Follow up side call to discuss USFS data upload and potential digitization effort
-   Travis to investigate options for USFS data templates and entry to NASIS\
-   Discuss data digitization lessons learned in later meeting (Colby & Nic)
-   Develop science products/funding agenda item for February meeting (Nic)

## Conclusion

The project continues to move forward with additional datasets being identified and acquired. New potential science products related to temporal dynamics and permafrost modeling are being considered in addition to the initial digital soil mapping goals. Action items center on acquiring priority datasets, discussions around entering legacy soil data, and planning next steps for follow-on work and funding proposals. Exciting potential continues for the project with increasing collaborations.

## Next Meeting

The next meeting is scheduled for February 9, 2024.
