# AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 12MAY2023 [12MAY2023]

## Agenda and Minutes (Attendees: Nic, Sue and Irf): 

### Updates on action items from previous meeting 
1. Nic created Project Table on GitHub in place of spreadsheet to track data acquisition progress
2. Nic had discussion with Dave D'Amore and Jacquie Foss re: USFS data

## Dataset acquisition and curation progress 
1. **Discussion of ABR Shell dataset with Sue**
      - Sue will deliver
3. **TODOs**
    - Major action items: 
      - Irf will continue to get acquired datasets on GEMS platform and generate metadata
      - Irf/Nic need to work on preliminary data dictionary/ontology
      - Nic needs to complete draft of data sharing/data use and co-authorship agreements.

### Looking Forward: Future Meetings
      - Will continue to hold monthly meetings, same timeslot through the growing season - people will join as they can throughout the summer.