# AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 13JAN2023

## Agenda and Minutes: 

### Updates on action items from previous meeting 
1. Need to ensure Sabine and Colby have access to GitHub
2. Everyone set up as users in our team on the GEMS platform, Alaska Database Team

### GitHub Site and GEMS Platform Overview:  
1. **Tour of GitHub organization site structure**
      - GitHub site access set as public, but repositories are private: https://github.com/alaska-soil-data-bank
      - Currently 2 repositories (Admin: for meeting minutes and project-metadata: for metadata documentation and overall structure)
      - Project Metadata repo is a growing document published as a GitHub Pages website
    - Major action items: 
      - Need to get Sabine and Colby set up on our GitHub repo. 

2. **GEMS Platform Overview**
      - Nic used minimum dataset example to show how GEMS platform functions. Uploaded csv and demonstrate ‘Explore Data’ . Irf will be working on data wrangling. GEMS lagging out during demonstration.
      - Key-field Aggregation 
      - Post-Harmonization,  Scripts run on GEMS servers and outputs working dataset.
      - Workspace Data has permission control for external and internal project 
      - Adding Data to GEMS → Identifiable Fields, we can enter field meta data for  ingested data sets and use the meta data tag instead  of original data set column value
      - Matt question: Managing different units for similar parameters
      - Sabine question: Handling different methodology for similar measurements
      - Colby response: We may have more morphological data than lab measurements
      - Nic - Showing methods and codes draft for capturing method metadata within code label labeling system
      - Will be important to have a controlled vocabulary 
      - Geospatial Fuzzing - Can choose which fields to fuzz, but maintains clear data flow documentation
      - 12:42 - Colby Question – Columns that exist in a one data set that is not available in all data sets.  
      - Nic – Response: Original data remains untouched but the harmonized data would contain NA values.
      - Established Ontologies are available to utilize “ICASA, EnvO”
      - Sabine Response: great to have them but maybe better to be limited in variation
      - 12:48 - Data Set  Metadata Population, created JSON metadata set for each database.
      - Sabine Question: Where do we define minimum standards for data quality?
      - Colby  Question: What if we get a small limited dataset? 
      - Nic Response: We will probably have to develop this as a group, hoping to use github discussions / documentation to build out the documentation page.
      - Proposal Issue - Tag Datasets with geospatial data quality, and maybe a few other parameters. Where did coords come from and what is the precision of coordinates? Matt: Recent data has estimates to meters of accuracy reported by GPS. 
      - Matt: Define Default units for each row, then define  a translation factor.

    - Major action items: 
      - Irf & Nic getting a preliminary draft with minimum standards
      - Colby share draft scheme for tagging dataset quality… “gps pre 2000, gps post 2000, from ortho photos..”

3. **Looking Forward: Future Meetings**
      - FEB: Discuss minimum standards requirements 
      - MARCH: Potentially invite GEMS and NRCS to meeting
      - Matt - Questions about previously submitted data sets. Pretty expansive dataset, not all of it maybe needs to be ingested, seeking feedback regarding data.
      - TODO: Include Sue Ives on followup emails
      - Deliverable 3: Katmai Segmentation Analysis – ABR is leading this work