# AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 13SEP2024

## Attendees

The meeting was led by Nic Jelinski from the University of Minnesota. Other attendees included:
- Denise Miller (NRCS)
- Joshua Minai (ANL)
- Sue Ives (ABR)
- Timm Nawrocki (UAA)
- Irfan Ainuddin (UMN)
- Katrina Nelson (UMN)
- Matt Macander (ABR)
- Jacquie Foss (USFS)
- Dave D'Amore (USFS)

Recording is here: [**SEP Meeting Recording GMT20240913-183258_Recording_1760x900**](https://youtu.be/-ChA_Z9_AcQ)

## Project Updates

### Administrative Updates
- No-cost extension period begins October 1st
- Team continuing to compile and integrate data sources while transitioning to modeling phase
- Project GitHub repositories being organized to support collaborative development

### Data Acquisition and Management

#### Borehole Data Integration
- Katrina Nelson reported progress on digitizing geotechnical borehole logs:
  - Working with data from 166 villages
  - Completed full data entry for 352 out of 533 individual logs
  - Focusing on Western Alaska land resource region (85 villages)
  - Prioritizing Woodwell Climate Research Institute partner villages
  - Data includes permafrost thickness and ice content information

#### Forest Service Data
- Jacquie Foss confirmed she will provide geodatabase with spatial data for soil/vegetation site descriptions
- Data will be uploaded to shared Box folder

#### UAA Data Status
- Timm Nawrocki reported some BLM AIM data pending due to missing pH values
- Team decided to wait for complete dataset with pH values before integration
- Will continue working with BLM to locate missing data in Alaska State office database

### Technical Progress

#### Data Platform Development
- Irf reported progress on data harmonization workflow:
  - Successfully implemented data transfer between GEMS platform and MSI computing resources
  - Developed hierarchical metadata dictionary system for querying different data types
  - Created organization structure for soil data with project, study area, and site hierarchies
  - Working on environment configuration issues in MSI platform

#### Covariate Development
- Imagery covariates completed and available on Google Cloud Storage bucket
- Flow accumulation calculations approximately 50% complete
- Using 10m resolution IFSAR DEM (harmonized by UAA team)
- State divided into approximately 1000 tiles for processing

### Modeling Strategy
- Team decided to use pH as first test variable for workflow development due to:
  - Wide availability across datasets
  - Relatively straightforward harmonization
- Soil classification modeling planned for later phase due to additional harmonization needs
- Will likely subset NASIS data to post-1999 for initial classification work
- Planning to test different resolutions (30m vs 60m) for final products

## Action Items

1. Nic to:
   - Share project background materials with Denise Miller
   - Follow up on data transfer agreement status
   - Connect Tim and Josh regarding covariate access

2. Irf to:
   - Resolve MSI environment configuration issues
   - Set up GitHub repository structure with submodules
   - Continue developing modeling workflow

3. Jacquie to:
   - Upload Forest Service geodatabase to provided Box folder

4. Timm to:
   - Continue follow-up with BLM regarding pH data
   - Complete flow accumulation calculations
   - Double-check Google Cloud Storage permissions
   
## Next Meeting

Next meeting will be October 11th, 2024