# AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 12JUL2024

## Attendees

The meeting was led by Nic Jelinski from the University of Minnesota. Other attendees included:
- Matt Macander (ABR)
- Dave D'Amore (USFS)
- Irfan Ainuddin (UMN)
- Ava McCune (UMN)
- Katrina L Nelson (UMN)
- Neal Pastick (USGS)
- Joshua Minai (DOE) - joined late

Recording is here: [**JUL Meeting Recording GMT20240712-170253_Recording_1798x900**](https://youtu.be/0ZtG1jaBCH8)

## Project Updates

### Administrative Updates

- No meeting held in May due to field courses
- No-cost extension confirmed through September 2025
- Brief June meeting primarily focused on updates

### Data Acquisition and Management

#### Private Data Agreements
- Three data sets pending legal agreements:
  - Hillcorp data (awaiting final non-disclosure agreement)
  - AEA and Conoco Phillips data sets (requiring additional U of M documentation)
  - ABR will handle data transfer once agreements are finalized

#### Geotech Log Digitization Progress
- Substantial progress on digitizing geotech logs, particularly for Western Alaska
- Focus on high-priority logs identified by Ava Stefani
- Current work concentrated on Chevak area:
  - 152 boreholes digitized
  - Coverage includes airstrips and village areas
  - Data includes permafrost characteristics and ice content information
- Logs obtained from multiple sources (Thor, Sue) with minimal overlap
- Data being organized with:
  - Site-level data (dates, coordinates, depth, etc.)
  - Morphology descriptions
  - Lab data when available
  - Data quality rankings for modeling usability

#### New Field Data
- June field campaign completed for Department of Energy project
  - New carbon stock data collected to 2-3 meters depth
  - Approximately 30-35 new observations near Galbraith Lake
  - Includes ice content data
- New data points forthcoming from Willow Project NPR-A

#### Forest Service Data
- Pending acquisition of shape file for soil/vegetation plots
- Dave D'Amore to discuss with Frances
- Previous data entry work completed by Ava

### Technical Progress

#### Data Harmonization
- Irfan reported significant progress on metadata structure reorganization
- Successfully tested integration of diverse data formats:
  - ABR's relational database structure
  - Individual researcher formats
  - PING's archival flat file format
  - Thor's dataset

#### Covariate Development
- Colby continuing work on terrain derivatives:
  - Processing ~40 derivatives from 10-meter IFSar coverage
  - Implementing hydrological connectivity fixes
  - Using specialized tools for DEM conditioning

### External Collaborations

#### AI Climate Institute
- Two 25% time computer science researchers joining in fall
- Potential collaboration with USGS on numerical modeling
- Planning August meeting with Neil to discuss priorities
- Interest from Irfan in participating in AI Climate work

#### Permafrost Pathways Project
- Ongoing collaboration with Woodwell Climate Institute
- Working with 5-7 YK Delta villages
- New observations being collected by Sasha Kholodov and Sue
- Data will help fill gaps in YK Delta soil observations

## Action Items

1. Nic to:
   - Follow up on data sharing agreements with lawyers
   - Connect with Jacquie/Frances regarding Forest Service shape files
   - Schedule August meeting with Neil regarding AI Climate collaboration

2. Dave to:
   - Mention shape file need to Frances
   - Continue discussion about hydro-conditioning approaches

3. Katrina to:
   - Continue geotech log digitization efforts
   - Maintain documentation of data quality assessments

4. Irfan to:
   - Continue refinement of data harmonization workflow
   - Prepare for test runs with random forest modeling on MSI platform

## Next Meeting

Next meeting scheduled for August 2024 (specific date TBD)

## Notes
- Meeting recording and full transcript available
- Due to field season activities, attendance was limited but productive updates were shared