# AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 13OCT2023

Attendees: Nic Jelinski, Sabine Grunwald, Matt Macander, Timm Nawrocki, Travis Nauman, Frances Biles
Meeting recording: [OCT Meeting Recording GMT20231013 172332 Recording 1920x1080](https://youtu.be/jg7CtiUfqo0)

## Updates on action items from September

Nic drafted the pedometrics abstract and received comments from the group

## Pedometrics 2024 Abstract

Pedometrics abstract will be submitted on Saturday 14OCT - please get comments in if you have any

## Update/review/discussion re: data curation and acquisition from NPS, BLM, USFS, DOE

Reviewed progress on datasource aqcuisition since last meeting

## Presentation of GEMS scripting workflow

Nic and Irf presented concepts and mechanics of GEMS workflow and metadata tagging/mining

### Other business

Frances brought up an excellent questions - where can all opf these different file types live? Nic is working on it - Box will be the most likely place. I can link to Box from GitHub as well Travis - another option could be to host a Teams workspace Timm N. - Is there an api endpoint for GEMS? would be nice to have a database to database connection. Nic will talk to GEMS engineers.

### Action Items
