[
  {
    "objectID": "index.html",
    "href": "index.html",
    "title": "Alaska Soil Data Bank Project Meeting Minutes and Message Archive",
    "section": "",
    "text": "1 Preface\nThis is the meeting minutes and message archive for the Alaska Soil Data Bank Project. The archive is organized into two parts: Meeting minutes and messages."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "meeting-minutes.html",
    "href": "meeting-minutes.html",
    "title": "Meeting Minutes",
    "section": "",
    "text": "This section contains meeting minutes from monthly AKSDB meetings. The meeting minutes template can be found at:"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-08DEC2023.html#introductions",
    "href": "minutes-08DEC2023.html#introductions",
    "title": "2  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 08DEC2023",
    "section": "2.1 Introductions",
    "text": "2.1 Introductions\nThe meeting was led by Nic Jelinski from the University of Minnesota. Other attendees included:\nAttendees: Matt Macander (ABR), Sue Ives (ABR), Sabine Grunwald (UF), Neil Pastick (USGS), Jacquie Foss (USFS), Mike Sousa (NRCS), Travis Nauman (NRCS), Colby Brungard (NMSU), Josh Minai (DOE), Timm Nawrocki (ACCS), Irfan Ainuddin (UMN).\nRecording is here: DEC Meeting Recording GMT20231208 180337 Recording 1920x1080"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-08DEC2023.html#project-updates",
    "href": "minutes-08DEC2023.html#project-updates",
    "title": "2  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 08DEC2023",
    "section": "2.2 Project Updates",
    "text": "2.2 Project Updates\n\n2.2.1 GitHub Organization Review\nThe group has a GitHub organization with repositories for project metadata, meetings, reporting documents, etc. Nic proposed flipping it from private to public access to facilitate sharing links. Private datasets would be removed first. The group discussed and agreed this would be acceptable.\n\n\n2.2.2 Data Curation Progress\n\nOver 700 additional hard copy NRCS pedons were identified that can be added to NASIS, including ~500 from Fairbanks and ~220 from Wasilla. These will help fill spatial gaps in under-represented areas.\nRetiring NPS scientist Dave Swanson will compile unavailable National Park Service data to contribute.\nA tentative target was set to have a preliminary harmonized soil dataset compiled by March to start developing modeling workflows, likely starting with taxonomy.\n\n\n\n2.2.3 Spatial Data Summary\nNic presented a spatial overview of compiled data so far across the state."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-08DEC2023.html#modeling-and-covariates-discussion",
    "href": "minutes-08DEC2023.html#modeling-and-covariates-discussion",
    "title": "2  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 08DEC2023",
    "section": "2.3 Modeling and Covariates Discussion",
    "text": "2.3 Modeling and Covariates Discussion\n\n2.3.1 Timelines\nMatt asked about timelines for getting covariates and modeling workflows ready. The current aim is to have harmonized site data compiled by end of March. Colby and Matt will continue advancing statewide covariate development accordingly.\n\n\n2.3.2 Model Resolution\nFor elevation data, 10m vs 30m resolution was discussed. 30m may be more appropriate for statewide modeling, while 10m could help represent landscape heterogeneity. IfSar can have issues in forested areas. ERA5 land data could also be an option.\n\n\n2.3.3 Model Inputs\n\nFor climate data, downscaled PRISM is a good statewide option. Alternate sources mentioned were SNAP and ERA5 land products.\nIncorporating remote sensing data could help capture pre/post disturbance conditions if site data is timestamped appropriately.\n\n\n\n2.3.4 Model Outputs\nWhile initial modeling may focus more on soil taxonomy, properties like organic layer thickness will also emerge as interesting continuous outputs not specified in the agreement. The group discussed starting with a draft taxonomy-focused effort first, then iterating with additional data later."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-08DEC2023.html#other-notes",
    "href": "minutes-08DEC2023.html#other-notes",
    "title": "2  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 08DEC2023",
    "section": "2.4 Other Notes",
    "text": "2.4 Other Notes\nAdditional discussion touched on incorporating newer NASIS data, using bulk density to estimate carbon stocks, and the need for additional nitrogen data."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-08DEC2023.html#action-items",
    "href": "minutes-08DEC2023.html#action-items",
    "title": "2  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 08DEC2023",
    "section": "2.5 Action Items",
    "text": "2.5 Action Items\n\nNic will reach out to USFS representatives not present about making the GitHub repository public.\n\nNic will meet with Neil from USGS to discuss modeling approaches.\n\nNic will compile a spatial overview of additional NRCS pedons for January’s meeting.\nMatt and Colby will continue advancing statewide covariate development."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-08DEC2023.html#next-meeting",
    "href": "minutes-08DEC2023.html#next-meeting",
    "title": "2  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 08DEC2023",
    "section": "2.6 Next Meeting",
    "text": "2.6 Next Meeting\nThe next meeting is scheduled for January 12, 2023."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-10NOV2023.html#opening",
    "href": "minutes-10NOV2023.html#opening",
    "title": "3  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 10NOV2023",
    "section": "3.1 Opening",
    "text": "3.1 Opening\n\nNic - Argonne Trip Summary\nNeil Pastick, may have a pos-doc mapping peat lands in alaska, Nic will reach out to him to see if they are interested in joining\nNic invited Josh because his work is very closely related to AKSDB work"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-10NOV2023.html#introductions-w-new-member-josh-minai---dsm-skillset-from-purdue",
    "href": "minutes-10NOV2023.html#introductions-w-new-member-josh-minai---dsm-skillset-from-purdue",
    "title": "3  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 10NOV2023",
    "section": "3.2 Introductions w/ new member Josh Minai - DSM Skillset from Purdue",
    "text": "3.2 Introductions w/ new member Josh Minai - DSM Skillset from Purdue\nWorking at Argonne National lab with Julie Jastrow and Roser Matamala, mapping carbon stocks and C:N ratio in alaska. Initially started with a small transect to map C and N stocks. Working on higher spatial resolution map (higher than 60m resolution). Josh is looking for higher res data. Cant map stocks using depth intervals because of variability in Perma/cryoturbated soils.\nJosh - Ummakant? / Mishra’s 2014 Carbonstock predictions from 2014,\nMapping carbonstocks to align with Earth System model. They worked on carbon stocks to 1m at 60m resolution. Conducted second stocks maps looking at co-variates at a coarser spatial resolution,"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-10NOV2023.html#dave-re-introduction--",
    "href": "minutes-10NOV2023.html#dave-re-introduction--",
    "title": "3  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 10NOV2023",
    "section": "3.3 Dave Re-Introduction -",
    "text": "3.3 Dave Re-Introduction -\nResearch soil scientist in PNW research station in Juno in Alaska, PhD in Fairbanks. They use NRCS database but also curate their own pedon data thats not into the NRCS database, feel it will integrate with our project well. They have ~50 pedon data in peatlands which is much greater than NRCS available data atm.\nHave ensemble model paper coming out soon on predicting carbon stocks soon. Comprehensive model for all western us states alaska & hawaii, and may include some canadian pedon data\nNic follow-up questions for Dave Upcoming paper is about evaluating error in point based carbon stocks? D - How good is any one model doing, if we combine all of it and aggregate error, to determine a mean, allow for model comparison against the aggregate. D - Not necessarily better or worse than individual model but allows for comparison D - Interested in C/N ration J - CN ratio, difficult with co-variates…. Also map C and N individually then compare C/N ratio VS mapping CN directly What was the input datasets for the paper in review? SSURGO, G-SOCK??(sp), WOSIS, Northern Circumpolar, ? , ?, McNicke?, Statsgo, canadian soil carbon, N - State effort in MN, starting on lowland conifer and peat predictions, Randy Kolka mentioned a larger program is that related to Dave’s project? D - no? D’s project is specific to SE alaska, but tries to collect as much data as possible D - Grant Domke (northern usfs research station) – Improve FIA soil approach, switch is rudimentary… N - Josh, do you know the datasets that ummakant used that were alaska databases that went into his model? J - NRCS …. Not as much access to data was a challenge, but potentially got data from russians. J has data that is X,Y and SOC stocks, depth of active layer – no metadata, julie may know others with w/ original data. J - Access to more data and share data w/ others…. Can share what he’s done next time, has created 30m (GSIM? IFSAR?) J - 5m would be too many pixels to predict on N - goal is carbon and … pointers to different datasets This project raw data intact and tagging metadata tags Controlled vocabular taxonomy, with a set of tags for each field in metadata sets, and we will use scripts to query based on tags. Will maintain a raw dataset that points back to repo/source and improving metadata. Harmonizing data will be a secondary step Ideally, the datasets will be useful in future applications as well D - NSF grant w/ canadian and us to harmonize data so a good start in crossing political boundaries, a working group of people has been established D - better to centralize in a repository at AKSDB vs handing off to individual researchers/groups which is good for transparency D - IFSAR in moist wet mountainous steep terrain is difficult Testing across steep slopes you start seeing “bathtubs” from clearcuts, artifacts from canopy heights. Pushing towards lidar Careful where to apply the IFSAR J - GDM 34m…. Seems to be ok “Nic gives you candy before the diagnosis” J - thinking about going coarser for CN prediction data N - going to go through points"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-10NOV2023.html#october-meeting-recap-and-action-items",
    "href": "minutes-10NOV2023.html#october-meeting-recap-and-action-items",
    "title": "3  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 10NOV2023",
    "section": "3.4 October Meeting Recap and Action Items",
    "text": "3.4 October Meeting Recap and Action Items\nMet in october and talked about GEMs platform and workflow Update on datasets - Matt McCander working on engaging on 2 big ticket datasets - Conoco Phillips and Hillcorp datasets. Collected on northslope, good spatial coverage and setup data sharing agreements. BLM data, w/ Rocky & Tim as collaborators, ACC UA-Anchorage"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-10NOV2023.html#overview-of-new-items-on-github-repo-and-organization",
    "href": "minutes-10NOV2023.html#overview-of-new-items-on-github-repo-and-organization",
    "title": "3  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 10NOV2023",
    "section": "3.5 Overview of new items on GitHub repo and organization",
    "text": "3.5 Overview of new items on GitHub repo and organization\nGithub – metadata & workflow for entire project overview Data completeness quality ranking\n\n3.5.1 Data completeness, geospatial data quality, and classification quality rankings\nGeospatial data quality rankings (building from Colby) Some breakouts by decade due to GPS accuracy in GPS over time Soil Clasisfication quality rankings overview A goal of project is to create soil class maps Controlled vocabularies available on Github Overview of Hierarchical metadata tags Hierarchical allows for specificity or ambiguity in data querying from primary AKSDB dataset Not changing header data of original datasets, the harmonizing will be based on tags Co-Authorship agreement up on github as well Table of Co-variates Agreement goals are to aggregate data and create soil maps as first step, but more applications can come out of this aggregated data than our deliverables\n\n\n3.5.2 Action items\nPrepare small USFS dataset (Dave peat depth) for integration in prep for pulling in larger USFS datasets D - Working on how to integrate their database with ours N - Best thing is to have a separate CSV for metadata when you deliver Irf will send an example light metadata csv to Dave\nAction Items IRF - Send Dave a metadata example / template from the ABR data"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-13OCT2023.html#updates-on-action-items-from-september",
    "href": "minutes-13OCT2023.html#updates-on-action-items-from-september",
    "title": "4  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 13OCT2023",
    "section": "4.1 Updates on action items from September",
    "text": "4.1 Updates on action items from September\nNic drafted the pedometrics abstract and received comments from the group"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-13OCT2023.html#pedometrics-2024-abstract",
    "href": "minutes-13OCT2023.html#pedometrics-2024-abstract",
    "title": "4  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 13OCT2023",
    "section": "4.2 Pedometrics 2024 Abstract",
    "text": "4.2 Pedometrics 2024 Abstract\nPedometrics abstract will be submitted on Saturday 14OCT - please get comments in if you have any"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-13OCT2023.html#updatereviewdiscussion-re-data-curation-and-acquisition-from-nps-blm-usfs-doe",
    "href": "minutes-13OCT2023.html#updatereviewdiscussion-re-data-curation-and-acquisition-from-nps-blm-usfs-doe",
    "title": "4  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 13OCT2023",
    "section": "4.3 Update/review/discussion re: data curation and acquisition from NPS, BLM, USFS, DOE",
    "text": "4.3 Update/review/discussion re: data curation and acquisition from NPS, BLM, USFS, DOE\nReviewed progress on datasource aqcuisition since last meeting"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-13OCT2023.html#presentation-of-gems-scripting-workflow",
    "href": "minutes-13OCT2023.html#presentation-of-gems-scripting-workflow",
    "title": "4  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 13OCT2023",
    "section": "4.4 Presentation of GEMS scripting workflow",
    "text": "4.4 Presentation of GEMS scripting workflow\nNic and Irf presented concepts and mechanics of GEMS workflow and metadata tagging/mining\n\n4.4.1 Other business\nFrances brought up an excellent questions - where can all opf these different file types live? Nic is working on it - Box will be the most likely place. I can link to Box from GitHub as well Travis - another option could be to host a Teams workspace Timm N. - Is there an api endpoint for GEMS? would be nice to have a database to database connection. Nic will talk to GEMS engineers.\n\n\n4.4.2 Action Items"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-08SEP2023.html#updates-on-action-items-from-august",
    "href": "minutes-08SEP2023.html#updates-on-action-items-from-august",
    "title": "5  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 08SEP2023",
    "section": "5.1 Updates on action items from August",
    "text": "5.1 Updates on action items from August\nI consolidated all comments on the data sharing agreement template and am attaching the current version 1.2 (dated 08SEP2023) here. Matt - please use this template as you engage on the Conoco and Hilcorp datasets - let me know if you think anything should be modified further as you begin discussions with those entities."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-08SEP2023.html#updatereviewdiscussion---data-curation-and-aqcuisition",
    "href": "minutes-08SEP2023.html#updatereviewdiscussion---data-curation-and-aqcuisition",
    "title": "5  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 08SEP2023",
    "section": "5.2 Update/Review/Discussion - Data Curation and Aqcuisition",
    "text": "5.2 Update/Review/Discussion - Data Curation and Aqcuisition\nReach out to AIDEA for Susitna-Watana data For non-digital NRCS data perhaps also get in touch with Chris Sabastio, former Fairbanks SS Lead - Jacquie will facilitate that contact USFS database is a flat file with key information for each pedon"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-08SEP2023.html#recent-find-of-nrcs-non-digital-data-in-critical-areas-of-the-state",
    "href": "minutes-08SEP2023.html#recent-find-of-nrcs-non-digital-data-in-critical-areas-of-the-state",
    "title": "5  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 08SEP2023",
    "section": "5.3 Recent find of NRCS non-digital data in critical areas of the state",
    "text": "5.3 Recent find of NRCS non-digital data in critical areas of the state\nDiscussed recent find of Mark Clark STATSGO pedons (~150) not in NASIS in the NRCS Wasilla office. Nic’s group will work on getting these in NASIS."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-08SEP2023.html#gems-updates",
    "href": "minutes-08SEP2023.html#gems-updates",
    "title": "5  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 08SEP2023",
    "section": "5.4 GEMS updates",
    "text": "5.4 GEMS updates\nIrf will give an update in October.\nOral presentation abstract for 2024 Pedometrics conference - due 15OCT. Nic will get an initial draft to this group by next Friday and request comments/edits. Everyone on this email group will be invited to be a co-author on the presentation."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-08SEP2023.html#other-business",
    "href": "minutes-08SEP2023.html#other-business",
    "title": "5  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 08SEP2023",
    "section": "5.5 Other business",
    "text": "5.5 Other business\nPedometrics 2024 abstracts are due 15OCT2023\n\n5.5.1 Action Items\nNic draft pedometrics abstract and share with group for feedback"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-11AUG2023.html",
    "href": "minutes-11AUG2023.html",
    "title": "6  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 11AUG2023",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Attendees: Nic Jelinski, Sabine Grunwald, Matt Macander, Colby Brungard, Irfan Ainuddin, Sue Ives, Frances Biles, Dave D’Amore, Jacquie Foss\n\n6.0.1 Project overview for new USFS attendees\nJacquie – better systems for managing veg data, spatially explicit veg data in other systems, will need to figure how to connect. FIA data – veg data database, with a few soil points. J - good to know if veg data exists, if so where does it exist. Soils 2026 – maybe Rob Vaughn at Gtech? Stella Smith? Geotechnical excellence application center? Dave – Harmonized data for digital soil mapping – isnt gonna happen?, spatial integrity is suspect.\n\n\n6.0.2 Action Items\nNEED: Flags for data accuracy Github – add Dave to github Dave - Template to send data over?"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-14JUL2023.html",
    "href": "minutes-14JUL2023.html",
    "title": "7  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 14JUL2023",
    "section": "",
    "text": "No minutes meeting cancelled due to travel and schedule conflicts with group members."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-09JUN2023.html",
    "href": "minutes-09JUN2023.html",
    "title": "8  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 09JUN2023",
    "section": "",
    "text": "No minutes meeting cancelled due to travel and schedule conflicts with group members."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-12MAY2023.html#agenda-and-minutes-attendees-nic-sue-and-irf",
    "href": "minutes-12MAY2023.html#agenda-and-minutes-attendees-nic-sue-and-irf",
    "title": "9  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 12MAY2023",
    "section": "9.1 Agenda and Minutes (Attendees: Nic, Sue and Irf):",
    "text": "9.1 Agenda and Minutes (Attendees: Nic, Sue and Irf):\n\n9.1.1 Updates on action items from previous meeting\n\nNic created Project Table on GitHub in place of spreadsheet to track data acquisition progress\nNic had discussion with Dave D’Amore and Jacquie Foss re: USFS data"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-12MAY2023.html#dataset-acquisition-and-curation-progress",
    "href": "minutes-12MAY2023.html#dataset-acquisition-and-curation-progress",
    "title": "9  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 12MAY2023",
    "section": "9.2 Dataset acquisition and curation progress",
    "text": "9.2 Dataset acquisition and curation progress\n\nDiscussion of ABR Shell dataset with Sue\n\nSue will deliver\n\nTODOs\n\nMajor action items:\n\nIrf will continue to get acquired datasets on GEMS platform and generate metadata\nIrf/Nic need to work on preliminary data dictionary/ontology\nNic needs to complete draft of data sharing/data use and co-authorship agreements.\n\n\n\n\n9.2.1 Looking Forward: Future Meetings\n  - Will continue to hold monthly meetings, same timeslot through the growing season - people will join as they can throughout the summer."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-14APR2023.html#agenda-and-minutes",
    "href": "minutes-14APR2023.html#agenda-and-minutes",
    "title": "10  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 14APR2023",
    "section": "10.1 Agenda and Minutes:",
    "text": "10.1 Agenda and Minutes:\n\n10.1.1 Updates on action items from previous meeting\n\nSue delivered NPS data from ABR Legacy Database to Nic and Irf\n\n\n\n10.1.2 Review, discussion and brainstorming of status on dataset acquisition\n\nReview preliminary spreadsheet created by Nic\n\nDiscussed each dataset, added points of contact, added other datasets to the table\n\nTODOs\n\nMajor action items:\n\nNic will get the spreadsheet table up on GitHub as a Project Table\nNic will have a conversation with USFS"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-14APR2023.html#looking-forward-future-meetings",
    "href": "minutes-14APR2023.html#looking-forward-future-meetings",
    "title": "10  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 14APR2023",
    "section": "10.2 Looking Forward: Future Meetings",
    "text": "10.2 Looking Forward: Future Meetings\n  - Will continue to hold monthly meetings, same timeslot through the growing season - people will join as they can throughout the summer."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-10MAR2023.html#agenda-and-minutes",
    "href": "minutes-10MAR2023.html#agenda-and-minutes",
    "title": "11  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 10MAR2023",
    "section": "11.1 Agenda and Minutes:",
    "text": "11.1 Agenda and Minutes:\n\n11.1.1 Updates on action items from previous meeting\n\nNic/Matt/Sue had conversation with NPS regarding data use/data sharing\nMike and Nic had a conversation with Ben Stratton and Tina Boucher (BLM)\n\n\n\n11.1.2 Update/review/discussion re: data sharing agreements/memoranda of understanding\n\nNPS Data\n\nPer conversation with Parker Martin: NPS data is good to use, NPS not worried about authorship, however Nic will get in touch with Dave Swanson\nABR has NPS data in the legacy database, but there is other data in IRMA and elsewhere\nNic will get in touch with Dave Swanson (NPS), Matt will get in touch with Carl (NPS)\n\nBLM Data\n\nMike & Nic had a convo w. Benjamin stratton, ….soils data person (integrated water and aquatics program director) for BLM. BLM AIM stuff probably most related to soil\nTina Boucher …. At BLM was from heritage program\nMike & nic convo with ben, tina and need to touch base with Matt Ferderbar; Most data is centrally held but may have some decentralized\nAIM data usage may have some caveats regarding usage in certain areas.\nSue: ABR may have AIM data from BLM for at least soil data\n\nUSFS Data\n\nNic started talking w. Forest service, jackie foss and Dave D’Amore – have significant data for SE. And scanned pdf field forms….not in a digital forms.\n\nOther Sources\n\nData from chien-liu fully available with authorship.\nABR – conocophillips\nShell & ??? - public domain & included soils data\nFish & Wildlife – similar to park service – Hillmar iis data and monitoring person\nLegacy database - riparian & wetlands data\n\n\nTODOs\n\nMajor action items for Nic and Irfan:\n\nAuthorship guidelines & data sharing authorship levels.\nPublication Data…. Tiers of authorship… for author data that is shared.\nSabine suggestion: Common sharing licensing scheme…. & derivative products… may already exist nicely.\n\nMajor action item for Sue: Deliver NPS data from ABR legacy database to Nic and Irf\n\nLooking Forward: Future Meetings\n\nWill continue to hold monthly meetings, same timeslot through the growing season - people will join as they can throughout the summer."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-10FEB2023.html#agenda-and-minutes",
    "href": "minutes-10FEB2023.html#agenda-and-minutes",
    "title": "12  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 10FEB2023",
    "section": "12.1 Agenda and Minutes:",
    "text": "12.1 Agenda and Minutes:\n\n12.1.1 Updates on action items from previous meeting\n\nNic and Irfan completed further drafting of project metadata document, which can be found here: https://alaska-soil-data-bank.github.io/project-metadata/\nStill need to get Sabine and Colby set up as GitHub users\nSue Ives (ABR) and Michael Sousa (NRCS) will now be joining our team meetings\n\n\n\n12.1.2 Discussion regarding draft project metadata document under development - sections to add in outline, other considerations\n\nReview project metadata document draft\n\nColby could not attend, sent comments over email: I reviewed the metadata and don’t have any additional comments except that perhaps on the data management plan we might not want to say that this data will be formatted for NASIS ingestion before going into GEMS (section 1.2). I think that the benefit of GEMS is that it will allow the harmonization/standardization of pedon data from disparate sources. Also, we don’t have the ability to add to NASIS.\nNic: we will have access to add new points to NASIS - being granted by Jessica (Alaska Region Soil Survey Lead).\n\n\n\n\n12.1.3 Review and discussion re: data sharing agreements/memoranda of understanding and authorship guidelines and considerations\n- Major action items: \n  - Nic needs to collect and draft both of these\n\n\n12.1.4 Looking Forward: Future Meetings"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-13JAN2023.html#agenda-and-minutes",
    "href": "minutes-13JAN2023.html#agenda-and-minutes",
    "title": "13  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 13JAN2023",
    "section": "13.1 Agenda and Minutes:",
    "text": "13.1 Agenda and Minutes:\n\n13.1.1 Updates on action items from previous meeting\n\nNeed to ensure Sabine and Colby have access to GitHub\nEveryone set up as users in our team on the GEMS platform, Alaska Database Team\n\n\n\n13.1.2 GitHub Site and GEMS Platform Overview:\n\nTour of GitHub organization site structure\n\nGitHub site access set as public, but repositories are private: https://github.com/alaska-soil-data-bank\nCurrently 2 repositories (Admin: for meeting minutes and project-metadata: for metadata documentation and overall structure)\nProject Metadata repo is a growing document published as a GitHub Pages website\nMajor action items:\n\nNeed to get Sabine and Colby set up on our GitHub repo.\n\n\nGEMS Platform Overview\n\nNic used minimum dataset example to show how GEMS platform functions. Uploaded csv and demonstrate ‘Explore Data’ . Irf will be working on data wrangling. GEMS lagging out during demonstration.\nKey-field Aggregation\nPost-Harmonization, Scripts run on GEMS servers and outputs working dataset.\nWorkspace Data has permission control for external and internal project\nAdding Data to GEMS → Identifiable Fields, we can enter field meta data for ingested data sets and use the meta data tag instead of original data set column value\nMatt question: Managing different units for similar parameters\nSabine question: Handling different methodology for similar measurements\nColby response: We may have more morphological data than lab measurements\nNic - Showing methods and codes draft for capturing method metadata within code label labeling system\nWill be important to have a controlled vocabulary\nGeospatial Fuzzing - Can choose which fields to fuzz, but maintains clear data flow documentation\n12:42 - Colby Question – Columns that exist in a one data set that is not available in all data sets.\n\nNic – Response: Original data remains untouched but the harmonized data would contain NA values.\nEstablished Ontologies are available to utilize “ICASA, EnvO”\nSabine Response: great to have them but maybe better to be limited in variation\n12:48 - Data Set Metadata Population, created JSON metadata set for each database.\nSabine Question: Where do we define minimum standards for data quality?\nColby Question: What if we get a small limited dataset?\nNic Response: We will probably have to develop this as a group, hoping to use github discussions / documentation to build out the documentation page.\nProposal Issue - Tag Datasets with geospatial data quality, and maybe a few other parameters. Where did coords come from and what is the precision of coordinates? Matt: Recent data has estimates to meters of accuracy reported by GPS.\nMatt: Define Default units for each row, then define a translation factor.\nMajor action items:\n\nIrf & Nic getting a preliminary draft with minimum standards\nColby share draft scheme for tagging dataset quality… “gps pre 2000, gps post 2000, from ortho photos..”\n\n\nLooking Forward: Future Meetings\n\nFEB: Discuss minimum standards requirements\nMARCH: Potentially invite GEMS and NRCS to meeting\nMatt - Questions about previously submitted data sets. Pretty expansive dataset, not all of it maybe needs to be ingested, seeking feedback regarding data.\nTODO: Include Sue Ives on followup emails\nDeliverable 3: Katmai Segmentation Analysis – ABR is leading this work"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-14DEC2022.html#agenda-and-minutes",
    "href": "minutes-14DEC2022.html#agenda-and-minutes",
    "title": "14  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 14DEC2022",
    "section": "14.1 Agenda and Minutes:",
    "text": "14.1 Agenda and Minutes:\n\n14.1.1 Updates on action items from previous meeting\n\nAdd Sabine and Matt to NRCS AK 2026 Task Force Notifications/Team. - Colby contacted Suzanne K-B to request that Matt and Sabine be added. Next AK 2026 taskforce meeting is January 20th.\nEnsure subawards contracts are executed. ABR contract is now completed and ready for invoicing. NMSU and UFL subawards have been executed by UMN and sent to sponsored projects at each institution (Nic double checked).\nSchedule monthly recurring meetings – second Friday of each month (beginning January 13th) @ 9am AK, 11am Mountain, 12PM Central, 1PM Eastern. Will keep this schedule at least through May – then will re-evaluate for the field season and fall.\n\n\n\n14.1.2 Discussion on executing Deliverable #1:\n\nThe Alaska Soil Data Bank (ASDB). We will acquire, curate, and centralize non-NRCS legacy data for the state of Alaska and stand up a database for continuing contributions on the G.E.M.S. platform of the University of Minnesota Supercomputing Institute. The ASDB will result in a harmonized dataset for use in digital soil mapping in Alaska and scripts will be written to export the data into a NASIS-readable format for ingestion.\n\nMajor action items:\n\nNeed to get Sabine, Matt and Colby set up as GEMS users.\nNic needs to set up a new project team and workspace in GEMS – currently working with GEMS team to do this. GEMS has streamlined the user addition process now – one question that came up for partners – should we use one login per instutition? The answer is no – we should use individualized logins for every user because this is now further streamlined and can be attached to a specific Globus ID\nOnce everyone is set up as users and our team is set up, Nic can pull everyone in to the project. I can add new users at any team once they are registered.\n\n\nGeneral discussion regarding path forward on deliverable 1\n\nAgreed that we should move forward in January with reviewing 2 test datasets on the GEMS platform – for the January meeting, Nic will walk through data import, field metadata tagging, dataset or project metadata generation in GEMS, and scripting capabilities in the workspace.\n\nWe will look at Chien-Lu’s UAF pedon database and a snippet of the ABR legacy database\n\nConcurrently, we will begin drafting metadata architecture for the project. We will have should have this set prior to large scale data ingestion, and aim to have a first version of a full metadata document complete by May 2023 or before. Sabine will share the full metadata documentation for the Florida Soil Characterization Database.\n\nSome additional considerations for developing metadata architecture:\n\nVersion control\n\nGithub? Or work on GEMS platform in JSON? - that may be limited so perhaps work on GitHub in JSON?\nAdditionally, it may be easiest for our full project metadata to be in a more easily editable form – while dataset specific metadata can utilize the GEMS metadata creation tools, which generate JSON formatted metadata.\n\nNeed to draft data conventions: decide how to handle missing data, missing values, etc etc. Were variables not assesed due to the sampling protocol or actually missing? Are missing fields null or zero values, etc\nDealing with different coordinate systems.\nOntologies/ controlled vocabularies for field metadata – we can create a controlled vocabulary/ontology that is specific to our project for appending field metadata. Nic would work with GEMS engineers to set this up.\n\nSome additional considerations for wrangling datasets\n\nWhat format? Text files? Database exchange\n\nNic’s first thought is we should work in csvs for most datasets. Although there is no restriction to file types in GEMS this would likely be the cleanest. Can look into database exchange options for the ABR database.\n\nAssigning unique IDs to all observations in datasets, checking for duplicates, etc\n\nThis is something that can be done in the workspace on GEMS – we need to think about site vs horizon level data – need to link with ID (ABR uses a project ID and a plot ID.\n\nColby has dealt with unique identifiers in combined datasets by appending the UTM coordinates to observations."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "minutes-24OCT2022.html#agenda-and-minutes",
    "href": "minutes-24OCT2022.html#agenda-and-minutes",
    "title": "15  AKSDB Team Meeting Minutes 24OCT2022",
    "section": "15.1 Agenda and Minutes:",
    "text": "15.1 Agenda and Minutes:\n\n15.1.1 Introductions\n\n\n15.1.2 Review of grant proposal, plan of work, and timeline\n\n\n15.1.3 Discussion of NRCS Alaska 2026 task force objectives/working groups and how to best interface with that work within the context of our project.\n\nGet Sabine and Matt on the AK 2026 Taskforce Mailing List for Meetings – Colby will contact Suzanne K-B about this\n\nOpen discussion/concerns, planning for future recurring meetings\n\n\n\nSchedule monthly recurring meetings – Nic will coordinate this\n\n\nb. From Sabine: we develop memoranda of understanding and agreement as well as implement data policies. This should include co-authorship policies. We should have a letter standardized - all those contribute using data policy. Makes it easier to answer for later - to have something in written form. Should do this with agencies as well – even if data is public. \n- How does data ownership work with NASIS - how would data ownership be honored. Some of the academics that might have datasest - how will the data be shared through NASIS with other potential users? \n- This process needs to incorporate the NRCS folks.   \n\nc. From Colby - hard copy data from Forest Service BLM, NRCS \n- Should contact Jay Scoblin: NRCS - knows how to get data into NASIS - did a giant export from the forest service NRS database into NASIS.  \n\nd. From Matt: ABR has asset in Google Earth Engine for statewide covariates \n- Colby also has co-variates on statewide basis? \n\ne. From Sabine - use some of existing data in terms of horizons and profiles to think of an inference AI model that is able to make predictions from topsoil to lower layers. To use environmental co-variates and topsoil information to make deeper predictions with AI model. Because this would be very interesting with landscape changes - what would happen as warming develops further in the future. \n- Will we include data from proximal soil sensing/spectral data, etc? \n  - Thats the fantastic AI dataset that we could explore - if you had mid IR scan, but didn't know horizonation - could you determine horizons - could you get to horizon nomenclature - would be something to explore - proxys and softer datasets. \n  - ISRIC - standardized soil images, soil profiles - create consistent images - images exist from soil profiles, soil properties, so you can match the image to the properties. I don't know how deep"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "message-archive.html",
    "href": "message-archive.html",
    "title": "Message Archive",
    "section": "",
    "text": "This part contains an archive of messages from the AKSDB project lead (N. Jelinski) to the AKSDB working group. They are currently archived in chronological order."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-01DEC2023.html",
    "href": "messages-01DEC2023.html",
    "title": "16  [AKSDB] Reminder: December Meeting This Friday (12/8) : 9AM AK, 11AM Mountain, 12PM CST, 1PM Eastern) + Agenda",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Hi Everyone -\nA reminder that we will be holding our monthly project check-in during our normal scheduled time this Friday, December 8th (Zoom link below if you don’t have it).\nTime (Friday, 12/8): 9AM AK (Matt & Sue & Mike & Dave & Timm & Jacquie) 11AM Mountain (Colby) 12PM Central (Nic & Irf & Josh & Neal) 1PM Eastern (Sabine)\nAgenda: 1. New group members: Neal Pastick (USGS) 2. Updates on Action Items from November 3. Review project materials and GitHub organization 4. Discussion re: flipping GitHub organization to public status 5. Update/review/discussion re: data curation and acquisition progress - Integration with Torre Jorgenson’s non-ABR legacy database - New NRCS finds: Fairbanks NRCS office hard copy pedons not in NASIS (&gt; 500 - mostly Gerstle River, Greater Fairbanks, Greater Nenana and Fort Wainwright surveys). - Additional data acquisition from Dave Swanson (NPS) prior to retirement 6. Any other discussion or related business - time remaining\nZoom Link (in case you don’t have it): Nic Jelinski is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. Topic: ASDB/AK 2026 December Team Meeting Time: December 8, 2023 12:00 PM Central Time (9AM AK, 11AM Mountain, 1PM Eastern)\nJoin Zoom Meeting https://umn.zoom.us/j/95708062752?pwd=OWx0cWswL3duYmg0eUtLZFVkd3dMUT09\nMeeting ID: 957 0806 2752 Passcode: MLwpf9\nRespectfully, Nic –"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-09NOV2023.html",
    "href": "messages-09NOV2023.html",
    "title": "17  [AKSDB] Reminder: November Meeting Tomorrow (Friday, 11/10) + Agenda [09NOV2023]",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Hi Everyone -\nA reminder that we will be holding our monthly project check-in during our normal scheduled time tomorrow, Friday, November 10th (Zoom link below if you don’t have it).\nTime (Friday, 11/10): 9AM AK (Matt & Sue & Mike & Dave & Timm & Jacquie) 11AM Mountain (Colby) 12PM Central (Nic & Irf & Josh) 1PM Eastern (Sabine)\nAgenda: 1. New group members: Josh Minai (DOE - Argonne National Lab) + Potential invitee w/ USGS 2. Updates on Action Items from October 3. Update/review/discussion re: data curation and acquisition from NPS, BLM, USFS, DOE. 4. Presentation/Discussion of Draft Data Completeness, Geospatial Data Quality, and Soil Classification Quality Rankings, which you can find in the Deliverable 1 Metadata 5. Presentation/Discussion of Current Field Metadata Controlled Vocabulary/Taxonomy 6. Presentation/Discussion of Draft Table of Covariates (currently being modified from original version from Colby and Matt). 7. Any other discussion or related business - time remaining\nZoom Link (in case you don’t have it): Nic Jelinski is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. Topic: ASDB/AK 2026 August Team Meeting Time: November 10, 2023 12:00 PM Central Time (9AM AK, 11AM Mountain, 1PM Eastern)\nJoin Zoom Meeting https://umn.zoom.us/j/95708062752?pwd=OWx0cWswL3duYmg0eUtLZFVkd3dMUT09\nMeeting ID: 957 0806 2752 Passcode: MLwpf9\nRespectfully, Nic"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-11OCT2023.html",
    "href": "messages-11OCT2023.html",
    "title": "18  [AKSDB - Action Item] Pedometrics 2024 Conference Abstract + October Meeting (10/13) Reminder and Agenda [11OCT2023]",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Hi Everyone -\nTwo big items: 1). Pedometrics 2024 Abstract. I am sharing a draft of a Pedometrics 2024 conference abstract (due this Sunday, 15OCT). While our previous EUCOP 2023 poster focused on the high level aspects of the project itself, this talk will focus on the workflow details and will be highly relevant to the pedometrics audience. Please take action by reading the abstract draft and making any suggestions (I know not everyone can access Google Drive so I am just attaching here as a document). Feel free to send back any comments and I will consolidate. Federal folks: I have you listed as potential co-authors - however I know some of you made need approval - if this timeline is too short for you to get approval (apologies) just let me know and we can either remove you from the co-author list or delay and edit/add you once you get approval.\n2). October Monthly Meeting. A reminder that we will be holding our monthly project check-in during our normal scheduled time this Friday, October 13th (Zoom link below if you don’t have it).\nTime (Friday, 10/13): 9AM AK (Matt & Sue & Mike & Dave & Timm & Jacquie) 11AM Mountain (Colby) 12PM Central (Nic & Irf) 1PM Eastern (Sabine)\nAgenda: 1. Updates on Action Items from September 2. Pedometrics 2024 abstract 3. Update/review/discussion re: data curation and acquisition from NPS, BLM, USFS, DOE. 4. Presentation of GEMS scripting workflow 5. Potential new group members: Travis Nauman (NRCS) and Erin Rooney (NRCS) + Woodwell Climate Folks (Y-K Delta). 6. Broad OCT-DEC objectives 7. Any other discussion or related business - time remaining\nZoom Link (in case you don’t have it): Nic Jelinski is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. Topic: ASDB/AK 2026 August Team Meeting Time: October 13, 2023 12:00 PM Central Time (9AM AK, 11AM Mountain, 1PM Eastern)\nJoin Zoom Meeting https://umn.zoom.us/j/95708062752?pwd=OWx0cWswL3duYmg0eUtLZFVkd3dMUT09\nMeeting ID: 957 0806 2752 Passcode: MLwpf9\nRespectfully, Nic"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-08SEP2023-2.html",
    "href": "messages-08SEP2023-2.html",
    "title": "19  [AKSDB] Follow Up: SEP Brief Minutes + Revised Data Sharing Agreement (v 1.2) [08SEP2023]",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Hi Everyone -\nThanks for all in attendance at todays meeting. Brief minutes as follows:\n\nDiscussed updates on Action Items from August - I consolidated all comments on the data sharing agreement template and am attaching the current version 1.2 (dated 08SEP2023) here. Matt - please use this template as you engage on the Conoco and Hilcorp datasets - let me know if you think anything should be modified further as you begin discussions with those entities.\nDiscussed recent find of Mark Clark STATSGO pedons (~150) not in NASIS in the NRCS Wasilla office. Nic’s group will work on getting these in NASIS.\nGEMS updates - Irf will give an update in October.\nOral presentation abstract for 2024 Pedometrics conference - due 15OCT. Nic will get an initial draft to this group by next Friday and request comments/edits. Everyone on this email group will be invited to be a co-author on the presentation.\n\nThank you all! Next meeting is Friday, October 13.\nRespectfully, Nic"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-08SEP2023.html",
    "href": "messages-08SEP2023.html",
    "title": "20  Reminder: AK 2026 Soil Data Bank Grant - Today - Friday, September 8th (9am AK, 11AM Mountain, 1PM Eastern) [08SEP2023]",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Hi Everyone -\nA reminder that we will be holding a check-in during our normal scheduled time today, Friday, September 8th (Zoom link below if you don’t have it). If you are unable to attend, don’t worry - I will send minutes afterwards.\nTime (Friday, 9/8): 9AM AK (Matt & Sue & Mike & Dave & Timm & Jacquie) 11AM Mountain (Colby) 12PM Central (Nic & Irf) 1PM Eastern (Sabine)\nAgenda: 1. Updates on Action Items from August - some of you have provided comments on the data sharing and co-authorship agreements (drafts attached again here) - I have consolidated comments - we will review comments and discuss for everyone in attendance. 2. Update/review/discussion re: data curation and acquisition from NPS, BLM, USFS, DOE. 3. Update on very significant recently discovered data from NRCS - not in NASIS. 3. GEMS updates. 4. Broad SEP-DEC objectives 5. Any other discussion or related business - time remaining\nZoom Link (in case you don’t have it): Nic Jelinski is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. Topic: ASDB/AK 2026 August Team Meeting Time: September 08, 2023 12:00 PM Central Time (9AM AK, 11AM Mountain, 1PM Eastern)\nJoin Zoom Meeting https://umn.zoom.us/j/95708062752?pwd=OWx0cWswL3duYmg0eUtLZFVkd3dMUT09\nMeeting ID: 957 0806 2752 Passcode: MLwpf9\nRespectfully, Nic"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-11AUG2023-2.html",
    "href": "messages-11AUG2023-2.html",
    "title": "21  [AKSDB - Action Item for September] Review Data Sharing and Use and Co-Authorship Guidelines Draft Documents [11AUG2023]",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Hi Everyone -\nIrfan, Sabine and I had a very productive discussion today with our USFS colleagues Dave D’Amore, Frances Biles and Jacquie Foss, who will be joining our group and meetings as they are able. I will post meeting minutes to the GitHub site, however there is one action item I am requesting prior to our September 8th meeting:\nPlease review and provide any comments as you are able on 1) our draft data sharing and use and 2) co-authorship guidelines and agreements. Note that the data sharing agreement is targeted for the most restrictive data provider (i.e. Conoco-Phillips) - clearly many data providers will not need or require a data sharing agreement or may want to significantly pare down what is in the current draft, and that is just fine.\nI am providing both draft documents here as word documents because some folks have had problems accessing Google Docs. Please feel free to make any comments you have either on the docs or in an email and send back to Irfan and I. We will consolidate.\nThank you and enjoy August!\nRespectfully, Nic"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-11AUG2023.html",
    "href": "messages-11AUG2023.html",
    "title": "22  Reminder: AK 2026 Soil Data Bank Grant - Today - Friday, August 11th (9am AK, 11AM Mountain, 1PM Eastern)",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Hi Everyone -\nA reminder that we will be holding a check-in during our normal scheduled time today, Friday, August 11th (Zoom link below if you don’t have it). I know many folks may not be able to attend, but if you are able please do and we can make it short.\nThe main points of discussion I would like to address are updates on data curation, GEMS, and general check-ins/setting the objectives for the fall.\nTime (Friday, 8/11): 9AM AK (Matt & Sue & Mike & Dave & Timm & Jacquie) 11AM Mountain (Colby) 12PM Central (Nic & Irf) 1PM Eastern (Sabine)\nAgenda: 1. Check-In and Introductions (if anyone new joins) 2. Updates on Action Items from May/June 2. Update/review/discussion re: data curation and acquisition from NPS, BLM, USFS, DOE 3. GEMS updates. 4. Broad SEP-DEC objectives 5. Any other discussion or related business - time remaining\nZoom Link (in case you don’t have it): Nic Jelinski is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. Topic: ASDB/AK 2026 August Team Meeting Time: August 11, 2023 12:00 PM Central Time (9AM AK, 11AM Mountain, 1PM Eastern)\nJoin Zoom Meeting https://umn.zoom.us/j/95708062752?pwd=OWx0cWswL3duYmg0eUtLZFVkd3dMUT09\nMeeting ID: 957 0806 2752 Passcode: MLwpf9\nRespectfully, Nic"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-31JUL2023.html",
    "href": "messages-31JUL2023.html",
    "title": "23  AK 2026 Soil Data Bank Grant - Meeting Agenda - Friday, August 11th (9am AK, 11AM Mountain, 1PM Eastern)",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Hi Everyone -\nApologies for the cancellation of our June meeting, and July flew by in the field - I know most people have been traveling and out. I am currently between fieldwork but would like to hold a short check-in during our normal scheduled time this Friday, August 11th (Zoom link below if you don’t have it). I know many folks may not be able to attend, but if you are able please do and we can make it short.\nI am including Dave D’Amore and Jacquie Foss (USFS) as well as Timm Nawrocki (Alaska Center for Conservation Science) as I would like to give the three of them visibility over our work in the context of this project as they will be contributing data and potentially be co-authors in the future. Dave, Jacquie and Timm - please feel free to join if you are able - if not, no worries - full meetings will resume monthly in September (second Friday of each month) and we would love to have you join as you are able.\nThe main points of discussion I would like to address are updates on data curation, GEMS, and general check-ins/setting the objectives for the fall.\nTime (Friday, 8/11): 9AM AK (Matt & Sue & Mike & Dave & Timm & Jacquie) 11AM Mountain (Colby) 12PM Central (Nic & Irf) 1PM Eastern (Sabine)\nAgenda: 1. Check-In and Introductions (if anyone new joins) 2. Updates on Action Items from May/June 2. Update/review/discussion re: data curation and acquisition from NPS, BLM, USFS, DOE 3. GEMS updates. 4. Broad SEP-DEC objectives 5. Any other discussion or related business - time remaining\nZoom Link (in case you don’t have it): Nic Jelinski is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. Topic: ASDB/AK 2026 August Team Meeting Time: August 11, 2023 12:00 PM Central Time (9AM AK, 11AM Mountain, 1PM Eastern)\nJoin Zoom Meeting https://umn.zoom.us/j/95708062752?pwd=OWx0cWswL3duYmg0eUtLZFVkd3dMUT09\nMeeting ID: 957 0806 2752 Passcode: MLwpf9\nRespectfully, Nic –"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-08JUN2023.html",
    "href": "messages-08JUN2023.html",
    "title": "24  [AKSDB] EUCOP Poster Draft + Cancel Tomorrow’s June 9th Project Meeting [08JUN2023]",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Hi Everyone -\nCancel June Meeting. My sincerest apologies but due to some unanticipated fieldwork & travel I need to cancel our June project meeting (originally scheduled for tomorrow, Friday, June 9th). I’m sure many others are otherwise occupied as well. Instead, I will provide project updates by the end of the June to everyone. Current action items (in brief) are to: 1. Complete draft of data sharing agreement (Nic) 2. Complete wrangling of preliminary datasets into GEMS (Irf) 3. Continue to pursue/expand data wrangling efforts (Nic, Irf, All). In that vein, I have asked Dave D’Amore (USFS Alaska) to join our group as USFS will be contributing quite a load of data and Dave has expressed interest in participating. If anyone has objections to this please let me know.\nEUCOP Poster. Finally, I will be attending EUCOP as part of another project but am presenting a poster on our project. It is more a “project overview” poster than a results poster at this point. See initial draft attached - please let me know if you would like to see any changes by Monday @ 10:00AM (I will print Monday afternoon).\nSabine: Could you send me an approved UF logo for use? Colby: Is the NMSU logo OK? Matt & Sue: Could you send me the current ABR logo (I think the one I put on there is old?).\nThank you all!\nAKSDB Poster DRAFT Updated w Figures 08JUN2023.pdf\nRespectfully, Nic"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-13APR2023.html",
    "href": "messages-13APR2023.html",
    "title": "25  AK 2026 SPSD AKSDB Grant - Meeting #6 Agenda - Friday, April 14th [13APR2023]",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Hi Everyone -\nJust a reminder that our April AKSDB project meeting is tomorrow, Friday, April 14th.\nThis meeting may be a bit shorter (30-45 min) as I have a PhD defense committee to site on immediately following. The main points of discussion I would like to address are updates on data curation from various sources and also our May-August meeting schedule.\nTime (Friday, 4/14): 9AM AK (Matt & Sue & Mike) 11AM Mountain (Colby) 12PM Central (Nic) 1PM Eastern (Sabine)\nAgenda: 1. Updates on Action Items from previous meeting 2. Update/review/discussion re: data curation and acquisition from NPS, BLM, USFS, DOE 3. Discussion regarding additional needs for contacting initiating data acquisition discussions from other sources. 4. Meeting schedule May-August 5. Any other discussion or related business - time remaining\nZoom Link (in case you don’t have it): Nic Jelinski is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. Topic: ASDB/AK 2026 Grant Team Meeting #6 Time: April 14, 2023 12:00 PM Central Time (9AM AK, 11AM Mountain, 1PM Eastern)\nJoin Zoom Meeting https://umn.zoom.us/j/95708062752?pwd=OWx0cWswL3duYmg0eUtLZFVkd3dMUT09\nMeeting ID: 957 0806 2752 Passcode: MLwpf9\nRespectfully, Nic"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-09MAR2023.html",
    "href": "messages-09MAR2023.html",
    "title": "26  AK 2026 SPSD ASDB Grant - Meeting #5 Agenda - Friday, March 10th [09MAR2023]",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Hi Everyone -\nJust a reminder that our March AKSDB project meeting is tomorrow, Friday, March 10th.\nI would like to keep the agenda items fairly similar to last time (since we were missing both Sabine and Colby), with the caveat that we have made progress on some of these and I will be providing updates in addition to discussion.\nTime (Friday, 3/10): 9AM AK (Matt & Sue & Mike) 11AM Mountain (Colby) 12PM Central (Nic) 1PM Eastern (Sabine)\nAgenda: 1. Updates on Action Items from previous meeting ~10 min 2. Update/review/discussion re: data sharing agreements/memoranda of understanding 3. Preliminary discussion regarding authorship guidelines and considerations 4. Any other discussion or related business - time remaining\nZoom Link (in case you don’t have it): Nic Jelinski is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. Topic: ASDB/AK 2026 Grant Team Meeting #4 Time: Mar 10, 2023 12:00 PM Central Time (9AM AK, 11AM Mountain, 1PM Eastern)\nJoin Zoom Meeting https://umn.zoom.us/j/95708062752?pwd=OWx0cWswL3duYmg0eUtLZFVkd3dMUT09\nMeeting ID: 957 0806 2752 Passcode: MLwpf9\nRespectfully, Nic"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-07FEB2023.html",
    "href": "messages-07FEB2023.html",
    "title": "27  AK 2026 SPSD ASDB Grant - Meeting #4 Action Items + Agenda - Friday, February 10th [07FEB2023]",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Hi Everyone -\nJust a reminder that our February AKSDB project meeting is this Friday, February 10th. Mike Sousa (USDA-NRCS Alaska may also begin joining in on some of these meetings).\nIrf and I have drafted a more complete outline of our project metadata document which can be found here. Most sections are incomplete, and there are potentially many other sections to add, but it is a start that we can work on. Remember that this is our project level metadata, and not dataset-level metadata, which will be managed in GEMS.\nEveryone: If you have a chance please at least briefly scroll through the document and familiarize yourself with the structure. In the meeting we will have time to review and documents any critiques, questions or things you would like to see added.\nSabine: If you have any comments please feel free to send them to me directly and I will incorporate them into our notes. I am especially interested in your perspectives on authorship guidelines/data contributions. We are just starting this conversation this month, so will have plenty of other opportunities to discuss in the future.\nTime (Friday, 2/10): 9AM AK (Matt & Sue & Mike) 11AM Mountain (Colby) 12PM Central (Nic) 1PM Eastern (Sabine) - Sabine will not be in attendance at this meeting\nAgenda: 1. Updates on Action Items from previous meeting ~10 min 2. Discussion regarding draft project metadata document under development - sections to add in outline, other considerations 3. Review and discussion re: data sharing agreements/memoranda of understanding 4. Preliminary discussion regarding authorship guidelines and considerations 5. Any other discussion or related business - time remaining\nZoom Link (in case you don’t have it): Nic Jelinski is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. Topic: ASDB/AK 2026 Grant Team Meeting #4 Time: Feb 10, 2023 12:00 PM Central Time (9AK, 11AM Mountain, 1PM Eastern)\nJoin Zoom Meeting https://umn.zoom.us/j/95708062752?pwd=OWx0cWswL3duYmg0eUtLZFVkd3dMUT09\nMeeting ID: 957 0806 2752 Passcode: MLwpf9\nRespectfully, Nic"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-05JAN2023.html#updates-action-items",
    "href": "messages-05JAN2023.html#updates-action-items",
    "title": "28  AK 2026 SPSD AKSDB Grant - Meeting #3 Action Items [TODO Before Meeting!] + Agenda - Friday, January 13th [05JAN2023]",
    "section": "28.1 Updates + Action Items:",
    "text": "28.1 Updates + Action Items:\n\nGEMS Team Created: Everyone was able to successfully register for a GEMS account, and I worked with the GEMS engineers to create a private team and workspace called “Alaska Soil Data Bank”. I now added you all as members to that team. TODO: Everyone - If you login to GEMS and then go to “Teams” and “My Teams”, you should now see it under your list. Let me know if you don’t.\nSabine and Matt - thank you for sending me documents/data. Much appreciated!\nGitHub Organization Created: After some consideration I have decided to move all of our project coordination from Box to a GitHub organization called “alaska-soil-data-bank” with multiple repos (currently all set as private) under it. I have migrated everything to GitHub and will no longer be maintaining our Box shared folder. There are several advantages to this:\n\n\nWe can publish our project-related documentation and repos publicly once we are ready.\nWe can develop our project metadata as a publicly accessible book published through GitHub Pages - here is a rough example: https://alaska-soil-data-bank.github.io/project-metadata/\nI can manage meeting minutes and updates as Discussions to create a running archive, and Todos can be managed as Issues. You will see I have already done this for our previous content under “Discussions”. TODO: Colby, Sabine and Irf - I found your GitHub profiles and invited you to the organization: let me know if you don’t see the invites. Matt - I couldn’t find you on GitHub - could you sign up for and account and/or send me your username? Then I will add you to the organization so you can access repos."
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-05JAN2023.html#time-friday-113",
    "href": "messages-05JAN2023.html#time-friday-113",
    "title": "28  AK 2026 SPSD AKSDB Grant - Meeting #3 Action Items [TODO Before Meeting!] + Agenda - Friday, January 13th [05JAN2023]",
    "section": "28.2 Time (Friday, 1/13):",
    "text": "28.2 Time (Friday, 1/13):\n9AM AK (Matt) 11AM Mountain (Colby) 12PM Central (Nic) 1PM Eastern (Sabine)"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-05JAN2023.html#agenda",
    "href": "messages-05JAN2023.html#agenda",
    "title": "28  AK 2026 SPSD AKSDB Grant - Meeting #3 Action Items [TODO Before Meeting!] + Agenda - Friday, January 13th [05JAN2023]",
    "section": "28.3 Agenda:",
    "text": "28.3 Agenda:\n\nUpdates on Action Items from previous meeting ~10 min\nOrientation to GitHub Organization and Project Management ~5 min\nOrientation to GEMS Platform ~5 min\nExample interactions with GEMS UI and Workspace: Chien-Lu Ping’s UAF soil characterization database + ABR legacy database snippet from Matt) ~ 30 min\nAny other discussion or related business - time remaining"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-05JAN2023.html#zoom-link-in-case-you-dont-have-it",
    "href": "messages-05JAN2023.html#zoom-link-in-case-you-dont-have-it",
    "title": "28  AK 2026 SPSD AKSDB Grant - Meeting #3 Action Items [TODO Before Meeting!] + Agenda - Friday, January 13th [05JAN2023]",
    "section": "28.4 Zoom Link (in case you don’t have it):",
    "text": "28.4 Zoom Link (in case you don’t have it):\nNic Jelinski is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. Topic: ASDB/AK 2026 Grant Team Meeting #3 Time: Jan 13, 2023 12:00 PM Central Time (9AK, 11AM Mountain, 1PM Eastern)\nJoin Zoom Meeting https://umn.zoom.us/j/95708062752?pwd=OWx0cWswL3duYmg0eUtLZFVkd3dMUT09\nMeeting ID: 957 0806 2752 Passcode: MLwpf9\nRespectfully, Nic"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-15DEC2022.html",
    "href": "messages-15DEC2022.html",
    "title": "29  Follow-Up and Action Items: AKSB Meeting #2 - Three Things! [15DDEC2022]",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Hi Everyone -\nThank you for discussion yesterday - a few follow ups:\n\nMinutes now posted. I added the minutes of yesterdays discussion to our running minutes document in the Box folder: https://umn.box.com/s/xjp7icv7ki3jjdqfmeuwrlrjwe8bwmct. All of my substantive group emails will now start with [AKSDB 00X] (with increasing numbers in sequence) so that I can easily keep a running record of important communications.\nAction items. The following action items should be completed before the end of December if possible:\n\n\nEveryone -\n\nplease sign up as a GEMS Open user here: https://gems.agroinformatics.org/webui. Click on the “Sign up to GEMS Open” box and follow instructions (Colby already did this as a test case with his OrchidID (other options as well) and it worked. Once you are approved users I can pull you into my GEMS “Team” which is specific to our project. Send me an email once you have done this so I can look to see if I can see you as a user in the GEMS system.\n\nSabine -\n\nplease send me any metadata documentation you have related to the Florida Soil Characterization Database and/or data handling conventions.\n\nMatt -\n\nplease send me any metadata documentation you have related to the ABR legacy database and/or data handling conventions;\nplease generate a “snippet” or small example dataset that would be representative of structure/fields for the ABR database and send to me. For now, csv will be the best format - can include project and plot data + metadata as separate files (and also soil horizon level as a separate file if that exists for some projects).\n\n\n\nJanuary meeting. For our January meeting, I will go over data ingestion, metadata editing/creation in GEMS using two example datasets (Chien-Lu Ping’s UAF soil characterization database + ABR legacy database snippet from Matt). The GEMS interface and workspace continue to advance significantly and I think the existing and new functionality will serve our needs quite well. Specifically:\n\nThere are excellent tools for appending field metadata - including fuzzy matching based on data types and column headings.\nWe can set up our own project specific ontology/controlled vocabulary in GEMS for field metadata - I can work with GEMS engineers to do this.\nThe GEMS platform tools for generating consistent metadata in JSON format for each dataset are well advanced and easy to use.\nThe GEMS workspace allows us to script in Python or R. I am going to default to R since that is what I use the most and also what we will be using for the DSM work (Deliverable 2).\nAlthough there are excellent tools in GEMS for generating JSON metadata for every dataset, I think we are going to need a more flexible and expansive format for our database level metadata architecture. I may look into setting up a GitHub project for this purpose so that we can have version control and maximum transparency - unless someone has a better suggestion.\n\n\nRespectfully, Nic"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-05DEC2022.html",
    "href": "messages-05DEC2022.html",
    "title": "30  Reminder: AK 2026 SPSD AKSDB Grant - Meeting #2 - Wednesday, December 14th [05DEC2022]",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Hi Everyone -\nApologies for the delay on getting this scheduled on my end - with a newborn in the house I’m still playing a bit of catchup. Based on the When2Meet that everyone filled out, it looks like December 14th was the best choice. Please let me know if this time no longer works for you and I will work to find an alternative. I did send out a Google Calendar invite but just to be clear because we are operating on 4 different timezones:\nTime (Wednesday , 12/14): 10AM AK (Matt) 12PM Mountain (Colby) 1PM Central (Nic) 2PM Eastern (Sabine)\nAgenda: I scheduled us for an hour, we may or may not take that whole time. I would like to suggest that we spend the “body” of the meeting discussing task specifics centered around Deliverable #1:\n\nUpdates on Action Items from previous meeting ~15 min\nAgree on and schedule recurring meetings moving forward ~10min\nBegin discussion on execution of Deliverable #1 ~30 min\nAny other discussion or related business - time remaining\n\nZoom Link (in case you don’t have it): Nic Jelinski is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. Topic: ASDB/AK 2026 Grant Team Meeting #2 Time: Dec 14, 2022 01:00 PM Central Time (10AK, 12PM Mountain, 2PM Eastern)\nJoin Zoom Meeting https://umn.zoom.us/j/97717859442?pwd=SGhvdGJSemxvYnVadjFFNUxRVW5DUT09\nMeeting ID: 977 1785 9442 Passcode: 6GFWs8\nRespectfully, Nic"
  },
  {
    "objectID": "messages-18NOV2022.html",
    "href": "messages-18NOV2022.html",
    "title": "31  AKSDB Initial Meeting Follow-Up and Future Meetings [18NOV2022]",
    "section": "",
    "text": "Colby, Sabine, and Matt -\nI have now added minutes from our first “AKSDB” team meeting (on 24OCT) to the Box shared folder.\nIn terms of action items from our first meeting, I believe the following things have been addressed:\n\nColby has contacted Suzann Kienast-Brown to request Matt and Sabine be added to the NRCS AK 2026 Task Force mailing list and meeting schedule (the November NRCS task force meeting was cancelled so you haven’t missed anything yet).\nI believe the NMSU and UF subawards have now gone through - Sabine - I also believe we got the start date corrected now for the UF subaward.\nMatt - as I mentioned in my email to you today, the contract for professional services/PO paperwork for ABR is with our accounting for review. I’ll be in touch as soon as I hear anything further.\nIt was suggested that we set up monthly meetings. I set up a When2Meet to try and find a 1 hr block of time to meet on either 12DEC, 13DEC, or 14DEC - I hope one of these days will work - if not I will suggest alternate dates. Please fill it out at your convenience. At our DEC meeting, we can make it an agenda item to find a recurring monthly time that works for everyone starting in January and moving forward.\n\nMy apologies that it has taken me a while to follow-up - the week after our October meeting my wife gave birth to our second boy, so I’ve been a bit behind but am steadily digging out!\nRespectfully, Nic"
  }
]